Footnotes example
Carlos Jenkins
%%date(%B, %Y)

%!target: xhtmls
%!style(xhtmls): media/themes/Clean/style.css
%!postproc(xhtmls): 'FNMARK' '°°_'
%!postproc(xhtmls): 'FNTEXT' '_°°'
%!nested(tex): --docclass {article}

= Footnotes =[footnotes]

This is a simple document with footnotes. Footnotes in Nested°°_ are simple,
you just need to include the token ``FNMARK`` to mark where a footnote 
should be placed. Then, anywhere in that section, preferably at the end 
of it, place the corresponding text and mark it with the token ``FNTEXT``. 

Note that marks are interpreted sequentially, so the first mark will be 
associated with the first footnote text found, an so on. Also note, that 
if you want to have a multiline footnote you need to ident the following 
lines with exactly 4 spaces. On HTML target the footnotes will be added at 
the end of the section.

Nested is a specialized editor focused on creating structured documents 
such as reports, publications, presentations, books, etc. It is designed to 
help the user concentrate on writing content without been distracted by 
format or markup. It offers a rich WYSIWYM°°_ interface where the user writes 
plain text with a lightweight markup language.

Lorem ipsum°°_ dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Nullam iaculis 
molestie adipiscing. Etiam aliquam hendrerit felis, et vulputate tortor 
rhoncus vel. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia 
nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Quisque pretium turpis eu augue vehicula 
aliquam. Maecenas volutpat, dui non vulputate lacinia, odio metus eleifend 
turpis, vel imperdiet libero enim sit amet libero. Aenean nibh velit, vestibulum 
in malesuada hendrerit, cursus tempus erat. Pellentesque non odio odio, non 
ullamcorper nunc. Integer feugiat urna id diam consequat quis scelerisque purus 
dapibus. Etiam condimentum orci ultrices justo rutrum sed fermentum arcu varius. 
Integer ac arcu enim. Nulla sem arcu, condimentum in tempor sit amet, auctor in 
turpis. Fusce sem arcu, tempus at mattis vitae, lacinia sit amet massa. Donec 
mattis erat vitae justo fringilla in scelerisque quam condimentum. Aliquam erat 
volutpat. Ut facilisis imperdiet pulvinar. Nullam ut dui ipsum, a accumsan magna.

Quisque suscipit interdum erat non tempor. Maecenas commodo lacus vel elit ultricies 
posuere. Sed eros mi, hendrerit in lacinia nec, rhoncus sit amet lacus. Integer 
venenatis imperdiet dolor, vitae posuere ipsum vehicula id. Donec porta urna a nulla 
fermentum in sodales nunc euismod. Suspendisse congue accumsan ipsum in hendrerit. 
Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos 
himenaeos. Curabitur tempus mi non nibh commodo tristique.

_°° Nested is a specialized editor for structured documents. For more 
    information visit http://nestededitor.sourceforge.net/.
_°° **WYSIWYM** : What You See Is What You Mean.
    See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYM.
_°° Lorem Ipsum is simply dummy text of the printing and typesetting industry. 
    Lorem Ipsum has been the industry's standard dummy text ever since the 1500s. 
    This particular text was generated using the Loren Ipsum generator avalaible 
    at http://www.lipsum.com/.

